Hong-Kong style egg tarts are probably my favorite pastry. Period. And the best part is…they can be made at home.

Chinese egg tarts can be found in Hong Kong, Macau, and other parts of China. The Hong Kong and Macau versions differ slightly. Macau’s version was brought over by Portuguese colonizers, and they have more of a scorched, caramelized exterior. The Portuguese egg tart eventually made its way to Hong Kong, where it was influenced by British custard tarts, which are a bit more glassy and smooth.

Ah, the sweet, sweet taste of colonial expansion.  gain conflic

You can buy them at Chinese bakeries, where you might be lucky enough to get a warm one. But recently, we got them at a restaurant that made them to order, which was a first for us. Even at dim sum restaurants, they’re never that fresh. They were hot out of the oven, and it was UH-mazing. Because having them right out of the oven is a WHOLE other ball of wax–a completely different experience from the normally lukewarm version.  new ways 

But we don’t all have dim sum restaurants within reasonable traveling distance that make these, so it’s time to learn to make them from scratch like the best of ‘em. While you’re at it, you should check out our collection of dim sum recipes but for now, let’s focus on Hong Kong egg tarts. So gather round, padawans–a whole lot of awesome is about to come your way.


Ok, so see those bubbles that inevitably formed from your very lively, energetic whisking? Not good.   i like it

Strain through a very fine mesh strainer–this step is extremely important to getting a smooth, glassy egg tart. No bubbles should be visible on the surface of the custard. very much

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F/200 degrees C and position a rack in the lower third of your oven. Roll out the dough and cut circles to fit your tins (you can also use a shallow muffin pan–the only reason why we had these adorable little aluminum tart pans was because we saved all the tins from previous egg tart consumption for the inevitable moment when we decided to make these. Yes, we are nothing if not frugal!). Press the dough into the tins.